# NuGet Packages

All of the core libraries and components available are installed as packages from `NuGet`. The core packages currently available are.

#### Piranha

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha
~~~

This is the core package containing data access, application models and interfaces needed to extend the framework. This package is **not** dependent on `AspNetCore`.

#### Piranha.AspNetCore

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.aspnetcore
~~~

Middleware and extensions for `AspNetCore`. This library is needed when building a web application with Piranha.

#### Piranha.AspNetCore.Identity

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.aspnetcore.identity
~~~

Security implementation for `AspNetCore.Identity` with manager views for administrating roles and users. Since the `EntityFrameworkCore` implementation of Identity provided by Microsoft is not database independent you will also need an additional package for your specific database.

#### Piranha.AspNetCore.Identity.MySQL

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.aspnetcore.identity.mysql
~~~

Identity DbContext implementation for `MySQL`.

#### Piranha.AspNetCore.Identity.SQLite

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.aspnetcore.identity.sqlite
~~~

Identity DbContext implementation for `SQLite`.

#### Piranha.AspNetCore.Identity.SQLServer

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.aspnetcore.identity.sqlserver
~~~

Default Identity DbContext implementation for all databases compatible with `SQLServer`.

#### Piranha.AspNetCore.SimpleSecurity

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.aspnetcore.simplesecurity
~~~

Simple security implementation for development and testing.

#### Piranha.AttributeBuilder

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.attributebuilder
~~~

Package for defining and building page types from attributes. This is the prefered way to import and synchronize content types.

#### Piranha.Azure.BlobStorage

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.attributebuilder
~~~

Services for storing uploaded media assets in Azure Blob Storage.

#### Piranha.Data.EF

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.data.ef
~~~

Data repository implementation for `Entity Framework Core`.

#### Piranha.Extensions.Sync

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.extensions.sync
~~~

Extension metods for calling the services synchronously.

#### Piranha.ImageSharp

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.imagesharp
~~~

Package for scaling image assets using `SixLabors.ImageSharp`. As this dependency is pre-release, so is this package.

#### Piranha.Local.FileStorage

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.local.filestorage
~~~

Provider for storing uploaded media assets locally on disc together with the web application.

#### Piranha.Manager

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.manager
~~~

This is the manager interface for working and maintaining CMS data from a web browser. Built with `Razor Pages`, `Bootstrap` and `Vue.js`.

#### Piranha.Manager.Localization

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.manager.localization
~~~

Manager translations for different languages.

#### Piranha.WebApi

~~~ bash
PM> install-package piranha.webapi
~~~

Package for exposing piranha content through a REST Api for using Piranha as a headless CMS.