# Sites

> Sites are the root node for your Pages and Posts and can be mapped against a specific `hostname` or `subdomain`. You can have several sites that will all have their own unique hierarchical content structure, but you need at least one site available.

Sites differ a bit from Pages and Posts in the sense that the sites both has an object holding the meta data for the site **and** and optional object for global site content. The site content can for example be used to store header or footer information for your site.

## The Default Site

When you start your Piranha application a site is automatically created for you with the name **Default Site** if there are no sites available. This site is only created on startup if there are no sites available which means that after it has been created you can change the name to if to whatever you want.

Many calls to the Piranha `Api` takes a Site Id as an optional parameter. If this parameter is omitted the default site will be used. Please note that if you have several sites in your application you can change which one should be the default site.

## Your First Site Type

Let's take a look at how a simple Site Type could look like with a singe region holding the Site Logo.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;
using Piranha.Extend;
using Piranha.Extend.Fields;
using Piranha.Models;

[SiteType(Title = "Simple Site")]
public class SimpleSite : SiteContent<SimpleSite>
{
    [Region]
    public ImageField Logo { get; set; }
}
~~~

To import this site type during your application startup you add the following line to your `Configure` method.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;

var builder = new SiteTypeBuilder(api)
    .AddType(typeof(SimpleSite));
builder.Build();
~~~

You can also define a single import for **all of the content types** in your application by adding the assemblies containing your types. The benefit of this is that you don't have to update your Startup code when adding new types.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;

var builder = new ContentTypeBuilder(api)
    .AddAssembly(typeof(Startup).Assembly);
builder.Build();
~~~

### Site Type Configuration

The `SiteTypeAttribute` has the following attributes available for configuring the behaviour of the Site Type.

##### Title

~~~ csharp
[SiteType(Title = "Simple Site")]
~~~

The display title to show when working with sites in the manager interface. If this property is omitted the **class name** of the Site Type will be used as title.

## Assigning A Site Type

Once your site type is imported into you application you can click on the site name in the manager, select your site type from the available dropdown and click **save**. After this is done you have access to the regions you have defined when editing your site.

## Advanced Content

Now that you know the basics for setting up sites, you should continue to read about the different components available for creating more advanced content. Information about this can be found in the articles [Regions](regions) and [Fields](fields).
