# Regions

> Regions should be used for **fixed occurrences** of data on a Content Type, for example a Banner that always appear on the top. For content that can be placed anywhere in the content and occur any number of times Blocks are recommended.

Regions are the top-most level you can use to structure the different pieces of content. They are very flexible and can be configured in several ways, for example:

* A **single** field region - for main content regions
* A **composite** region made up of several fields
* A sortable **collection** of both of the above.

## Single Field Regions

When defining single field regions, the field type **must** be referenced directly from the Content Model. The deserializer **does not** support custom objects with a single field.

##### Correct Implementation

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;
using Piranha.Extend;
using Piranha.Extend.Fields;
using Piranha.Models;

[PageType]
public class MyPage : Page<MyPage>
{
    [Region]
    public HtmlField Body { get; set; }
}
~~~

##### Incorrect Implementation

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;
using Piranha.Extend;
using Piranha.Extend.Fields;
using Piranha.Models;

public class MyBody
{
    [Field]
    public HtmlField Body { get; set; }
}

[PageType]
public class MyPage : Page<MyPage>
{
    [Region]
    public MyBody HtmlBody { get; set; }
}
~~~

## Region Configuration

When defining a region with the `RegionAttribute` you can set the following properties. Please note that all of these are totally optional.

##### Title

~~~ csharp
[Region(Title = "Main Content")]
public MarkdownField MainContent { get; set; }
~~~

Optional title to be shown in the manager interface. If this property is left empty the **property name** is used. The example above shows a single field region in a Content Type.

##### ListTitle

~~~ csharp
public class MyRegion
{
    [Field]
    public StringField Title { get; set; }

    [Field]
    public TextField Body { get; set; }
}

...

[Region(ListTitle = "Title")]
public IList<MyRegion> Teasers { get; set; }
~~~

The optional **field name** of a composite region that should be used when rendering the collapsed list items in the manager interface. The example above shows a **composite region** that is made up of a `StringField` and a `TextField`.

##### ListExpand

~~~ csharp
[Region(ListExpand = false)]
public IList<ImageField> Images { get; set; }
~~~

If the list item should be expandable or if the fields should be shown directly in the list. The default behavior is `true` but it can be useful to set it to `false` if you have a single field region or a very simple list region. The example above will create a list of image fields and show them directly in the list.

##### SortOrder

~~~ csharp
[Region(SortOrder = 1)]
public StringField Title { get; set; }
~~~

Optional sort order. This can be useful if you want to inherit a base class containing regions and you want to force them into being displayed in a certain way in the manager interface. The default sort order is in the order they are declared in the class.

##### Icon

~~~ csharp
[Region(Icon = "fas fas-fish")]
public StringField Title { get; set; }
~~~

The CssClass for the icon that should be used when rendering the region in the manager.

##### Display

~~~ csharp
[Region(Display = RegionDisplayMode.Setting)]
public MySeoInfo Seo { get; set; }
~~~

Defines how the region should be rendered in the manager. The following options are available to choose from:

* **Content** - Displays the region in the content region of the page with a selection button.
* **Setting** - Displays the region in the settings modal in its own tab
* **Hidden** - The region is not rendered. This should be used if it's part of a custom editor.

Remember that it has to make sense to define regions as `Settings`, otherwise the content editors will most likely not find it when editing the content.

##### Region Description

~~~ csharp
[Region]
[RegionDescription("Optional header shown at the top of the page.")]
public MyRegion MyHeader { get; set; }
~~~

Optional description that is shown above the region in the manager. This can be used to provide guidance and help to content editors when editing content.
