# Routing

> This article cover how the basic routing mechanism of Piranha works. For more advanced scenarios, like sending custom route parameters to page instances, please refer to [Advanced Routing](advanced-routing).

There's no magical tricks when it comes to the routing of Piranha CMS. Piranha relies **100%** on the underlying web framework of your choice to handle the requests in the end, may it be MVC **or** Razor Pages. In the follwing examples we will asume that we have two **Page Types** defined called `BasicPage` and `AdvancedPage`, and that they have the following routes set up.

**BasicPage**

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;
using Piranha.Models;

[PageType(Title = "Basic Page")]
public class BasicPage : Page<BasicPage>
{
    ...
}
~~~

**AdvancedPage**

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;
using Piranha.Models;

[PageType(Title = "Advanced Page")]
[PageTypeRoute(Title = "Default", Route = "/advanced")]
public class AdvancedPage : Page<AdvancedPage>
{
    ...
}
~~~

Also, for our examples we will asume that we have **two** pages created in our site structure with the following `slugs`. The page with the slug `/home` is also the start page of the site.

* `/home` for AdvancedPage
* `/about-us` for BasicPage

## Default routes

As you can see, the Page Type `BasicPage` does not have a route explicitly specified. When there's no route specified Piranha will rewrite the request to the **default route** of the Content Type. The following routes are default for the different core types:

* `/page` for Pages.
* `/archive` for Archive Pages.
* `/post` for Posts.

## How Does The Request Pipeline Work

Here's a simple description of what happens when a request comes to a Piranha application.

1. A request comes to the web application
2. The available **middleware** tries to resolve the url to an existing `slug`.
3. If the middleware finds a slug it checks for a specified route or uses the default route.
4. The request is rewritten to `/<route>?id=<content_id>&...` and handed over to the underlying web framework.

When a request is handled by the middleware the query string parameter `piranha_handled=true` is added to the rewritten URL. This is done to tell **other Piranha middleware** later in the pipeline that the request has been handled so there's no unnecessary processing done.

## Example Requests

Given the above page types, here's how the following requests would be resolved.

### Start Page

`GET /`

Given that the `StartpageMiddleware` is registered, the first root-level page of the site will be resolved. Since this page is of the type `AdvancedPage` the request will be rewritten to:

`GET /advanced?id=...&startpage=true&piranha_handled=true`

This also means that we need something that listens to the route we've specified in our Page Type. If we're using MVC we will need an **Action** with a matching route, for example:

~~~ csharp
using System;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Piranha;

public class CmsController : Controller
{
    private readonly IApi _api;

    public CmsController(IApi api)
    {
        _api = api;
    }

    ...

    [Route("advanced")]
    public async Task<IActionResult> AdvancedPage(Guid id, bool startpage)
    {
        var model = await _api.Pages.GetByIdAsync<AdvancedPage>(id);

        if (startpage)
            return View("StartPage", model);
        return View(model);
    }
}
~~~

### Home

`GET /home`

If the start page is referenced by `slug` the exact same thing will happen as in the above example given that the `PageMiddleware` is registered in the application pipeline. It will also be handled by the same Action in the same Controller.

### About Us

`GET /about-us`

This request will also be handled by the `PageMiddleware`, but since the page is of the type `BasicPage` the default route will be used.

`GET /page?id=...&startpage=true&piranha_handled=true`

To handle this request we will need an **Action** in our Controller listening to the default page route as well.

~~~ csharp
using System;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Piranha;

public class CmsController : Controller
{
    private readonly IApi _api;

    public CmsController(IApi api)
    {
        _api = api;
    }

    ...

    [Route("page")]
    public async Task<IActionResult> BasicPage(Guid id)
    {
        return View(await _api.Pages.GetByIdAsync<BasicPage>(id));
    }
}
~~~

Since all parameters are passed through the query string they are **optional** to handle. For example, we are not interested whether the requested page instance is the start page for the BasicPage type, so we can simply omit it from the method declaration.
