# Advanced Routing

Sometime's you'll want to implement pages that take **custom parameters** and then performs some business logic, but are still positioned within the sitemap like a regular content page. Luckily this is not a problem at all since Piranha only rewrites the part of the requested URL that **can be matched to a permalink** and leaves the rest for your application to handle.

Let's for example say we wanted to implement a page in our site that shows details about a product, but the product data is in fact in another system.

## Create The Page Type

We're going to start by creating a new `Page Type` that has it's own unique `Route` configured to handle our product details. We're also going to **disable** blocks as we don't want a lot of extra content taking up space.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;
using Piranha.Models;

[PageType(Title = "Product Page", UseBlocks = false)]
[PageTypeRoute(Title = "Default", Route = "/productpage")]
public class ProductPage : Page<ProductPage>
{
    public MyProduct SelectedProduct { get; set; }

    ...
}
~~~

This page type could of course contain any number of `Regions`, `Fields` or `Blocks` you want it to have.

## Create The Controller Action

Next up we need to create an `Action` that handles our new route. This action can be added to any controller you want as long as the route matches the one specified on the Page Type.

~~~ csharp
using System;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Piranha;

public class MyController : Controller
{
    private readonly IApi _api;
    private readonly IProductApi _productApi;

    public MyController(IApi api, IProductApi productApi)
    {
        _api = api;
        _productApi = productApi;
    }

    [Route("/productpage/{productId?}")]
    public async Task<IActionResult> ProductPage(Guid id, string productId = null)
    {
        if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(productId))
        {
            // Get the page from Piranha
            var model = await _api.Pages.GetByIdAsync<ProductPage>(id);

            // Get the selected product from our external system
            model.SelectedProduct = _productApi.GetProductById(productId);

            return View(model);
        }
        else
        {
            // TODO: Someone came here without a product id, handle it gracefully.
        }
    }
}
~~~

Since the routing of Piranha doesn't know that we **want a product id** the page will be matched even when no product id is requested. For this reason this should always be handled. Another way to handle it is to create an `Alias` for the permalink of the page (with no product id) that performs a redirect to another page.

## Requesting The Page

Now let's say we publish our product detail page in our site on the permalink `/products/details` and we have some kind landing page for our products at `/products`, we can now request it by calling.

* `GET /products/details/the-first-product`
* `GET /products/details/the-second-product`

Both of these requests will end up on the same page in Piranha with the additional route parameter available in the actions in `productId`.