# Middleware

The first component in the Asp.NET Core pipeline is `Middleware`. Middleware can either handle a request completely, or process the incoming request and pass it on to the next component in the pipeline.

As Piranha CMS is built around standard `ASP.NET` components most of its middleware is used for routing and passes the request on to eventually be handled by the web application.

## Registering The Middleware

The middleware components are added when configuring the application in `Startup.cs`. The following code sets up middleware for all available content.

### Standard Setup

~~~ csharp
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env, IApi api)
{
    ...

    // Configure Piranha
    app.UsePiranha(options => {
        ...
    });
    
    ...
}
~~~

This call is equivalent to setting up the entire web application **and** adding the following middleware components (in the specified order). Please note that the integrated middleware handles a lot of different content types.

1. **Integrated** Middleware
2. **Sitemap** Middleware

### Advanced Setup

~~~ csharp
// Configure Piranha
app.UsePiranha();
~~~

If you want to control exactly how the application is setup and in what order you can use the advanced setup. Calling this method **only** adds middleware so you're 100% responsible for setting up the rest of your application. When calling this method the following middleware are added in the specified order.

1. **Application** Middleware
2. **Alias** Middleware
3. **Page** Middleware
4. **Post** Middleware
5. **Archive** Middleware
6. **Startpage** Middleware
7. **Sitemap** Middleware

If you want to just add specific components you can read about them in detail below.

## Available Middleware

Below is a description of the different middleware components, how you register them manually, and what they do. Please note that if you plan on registering middleware manually you should not call `app.UsePiranha()` as this will register all middleware.

### Integrated Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UseIntegratedPiranha();
~~~

This middleware component handles **all of the content types** in one pass and is designed to be as efficient as possible in the most common runtime scenario. This middleware replaces, and should **not** be used together with the following components:

* Application Middleware
* Alias Middleware
* Page Middleware
* Post Middleware
* Archive Middleware
* Startpage Middleware

### Application Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UsePiranhaApplication();
~~~

Adds the middleware that resolves the current site requested by the incoming request. This middleware is **mandatory** and needed by **all other middleware** that handles incoming requests.

### Alias Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UsePiranhaAliases();
~~~

This adds the middleware that rewrites incoming requests depending on the current aliases configured in the manager.

### Page Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UsePiranhaPages();
~~~

This adds the middleware that tries to resolve an incoming request to the slugs available for the current site. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

`GET /<pageSlug>`

The middleware will rewrite requests to the specified **Page Type Route** or to `/page` if no route is specified, with the arguments `id` and `startpage`. To handle this request your **controller action** should look like this:

~~~ csharp
[Route("page")]
public IActionResult Page(Guid id, bool startpage)
{
    ...
}
~~~

### Post Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UsePiranhaPosts();
~~~

This adds the middleware that tries to resolve an incoming request to the slugs available for the current site. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/<postSlug>`

The middleware will rewrite requests to the specified **Post Type Route** or to `/post` if no route is specified, with the argument `id`. To handle this request your controller action should look like this:

~~~ csharp
[Route("post")]
public IActionResult Post(Guid id)
{
    ...
}
~~~

### Archive Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UsePiranhaArchives();
~~~

This adds the middleware that resolves incoming requests for **archive pages** and rewrites the request to the specified **Page Type Route** or to `/archive` if no route is specified. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

##### Standard Request

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/<year?>/<month?>(/page/<pageNum>)?`

##### Filtered By Category

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/category/<categorySlug>/<year?>/<month?>(/page/<pageNum>)?`

#### Filtered By Tag

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/tag/<tagSlug>/<year?>/<month?>(/page/<pageNum>)?`

#### Possible Filter

All parameters are optional except `blogPageSlug`, but the optional paging must be placed last. Everything after the page number is ignored. This means that the following URL's would be valid:

* `/myblog`
* `/myblog/category/fishing`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon`
* `/myblog/page/2`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/page/2`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/page/2`
* `/myblog/2018`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018`
* `/myblog/2018/page/2`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018/page/2`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018/page/2`
* `/myblog/2018/1`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018/1`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018/1`
* `/myblog/2018/1/page/2`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018/1/page/2`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018/1/page/2`

The middleware will rewrite requests to the specified route with the following arguments:

~~~ csharp
[Route("archive")]
public IActionResult Archive(Guid id, int? year = null, int? month = null,
    int? page = null, Guid? category = null, Guid? tag = null)
{
    ...
}
~~~

### Startpage Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UsePiranhaStartPage();
~~~

Adds the middleware that resolves requests to the site root. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

`GET /`

The request is rewritten the same way as for pages.

### Sitemap Middleware

~~~ csharp
app.UsePiranhaSitemap();
~~~

Adds the middleware that responds to incoming requests for `/sitemap.xml` and returns a sitemap document.

`GET /sitemap.xml`
