# Block Groups

> This article covers how to implement custom block groups for Piranha. If you want to read more about the standard blocks included, please refer to [Blocks](../content/blocks) in the section **Content**.

A Block Group is a special kind of block that can have child items. Just like regular blocks, block groups can have Field Properties defined. These fields are **global** for the group and are displayed above the actual items.

Please note that block groups **can not** contain other block groups as items, so they can't be used to build a recursive structure.

## Creating a Block Group

The main difference between creating a custom block and a block group is that they inherit from different base classes and uses different attributes for their meta data. All block groups must inherit from the base class `Piranha.Extend.BlockGroup`.

As an example, let's take a look how the **Gallery** block group is implemented.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.Extend;
using Piranha.Extend.Fields;

[BlockGroupType(Name = "Gallery", Category = "Media", Icon = "fas fa-images")]
[BlockItemType(Type = typeof(ImageBlock))]
public class ImageGalleryBlock : BlockGroup
{
}
~~~

### Block Group Configuration

In order to register your block group you need to mark it with the `BlockGroupType` attribute like in the above example. This attribute has the following properties:

##### Name

~~~ csharp
public string Name { get; set; }
~~~

This is the name that is shown in the manager interface when editing.

##### Category

~~~ csharp
public string Category { get; set; }
~~~

The name of category the block group will be grouped under in the manager interface.

##### Icon

~~~ csharp
public string Icon { get; set; }
~~~

Css class for redering the block group icon in the manager interface. The manager interface uses the free icon package from **font awesome**.

##### Display

~~~ csharp
public BlockDisplayMode Display { get; set; }
~~~

Determines how the group should be rendered in the manager interface. The available options are:

* **MasterDetail** - Displays the group with an item list to the left and the selected item to the right.
* **Horizontal** - Displays the group items in a horizontal columns.
* **Vertical** - Displays the group items in a vertical list.

The default setting for this property is **MasterDetail**

### Limiting Child Item Types

If you want you can limit the types of blocks that can be positioned within your group. This is done by adding **one or several** `BlockItemType` attributes to you class. As an example, the Image Gallery above only accepts child items of the type `ImageBlock`.

##### Type

~~~ csharp
public Type Type { get; set; }
~~~

The item type of the block that should be allowed inside the group.

### Global Fields

If you want your block group to have global fields you just add them to your block group class. Let's for example say that we'd like to add a title for our entire image gallery:

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.Extend;
using Piranha.Extend.Fields;

[BlockGroupType(Name = "Gallery", Category = "Media", Icon = "fas fa-images")]
[BlockItemType(Type = typeof(ImageBlock))]
public class ImageGalleryBlock : BlockGroup
{
    public StringField Title { get; set; }
}
~~~

## Register The Block Group

Block groups are registered in the same way as regular blocks. For more information, please read the article about [Blocks](blocks).

## Create The Manager Component

No specific `Vue` component is needed to render block groups.

## Creating a Block Group with 'IsGeneric' blocks

This feature allows you to create a `BlockGroup` and use the `IsGeneric` property so you don't have to write custom Vue `Components` for your child blocks. This sounds complicated, so let's look at an example.

Imagine that we wanted to create a simple online photo album. The photo album would have a title and a collection of images in it. Each image has a title and a description.

When this BlockGroup is added to a page, you will see the BlockTitle field which you can enter a title into. You will see you can also add a photo and can then enter the title, description and image.

~~~ csharp
[BlockGroupType(Name = "Photo album", Category = "Custom Blocks", Icon = "fas fa-images")]
[BlockItemType(Type = typeof(PhotoBlock))]
public class PhotoAlbumBlockGroup : BlockGroup
{
    [Field]
    public StringField PhotoAlbumTitle { get; set; }
}

[BlockType(Name = "A photo", Category = "Custom Blocks", Icon = "fas fa-images", IsUnlisted = true,IsGeneric = true)]
public class PhotoBlock : Block
{
    [Field]
    public StringField Title { get; set; }

    [Field]
    public HtmlField Description { get; set; }

    [Field]
    public ImageField Image { get; set; }

    public override string GetTitle()
    {
        if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(Title))
            return "Not set";
        else
            return Title;
    }
}
~~~

**Remember:** You will still need to register these blocks in your Startup.cs class just like regular [Blocks](blocks).

When you add a 'Photo album' to a page in Piranha you will be able to set the title of the album and add as many photos as you like. And, more importantly, you've not had to write any `Components` to do this!

To render the photo album, create a Partial in your DisplayTemplates folder called PhotoAlbumBlockGroup and you will be able to render the album with the following code snippet:

~~~csharp
@model PhotoAlbumBlockGroup

<p>@Model.BlockTitle</p>
@foreach (var item in Model.Items.Cast<PhotoBlock>())
{
    @Html.Raw(@item.Description)
    // etc
}
~~~

