# What Is Piranha

Piranha CMS is a **lightweight**, **unobtrusive** and **cross-platform** CMS library for `.NET 6`. It can be used to add CMS functionality to an already existing application, build a new website from scratch, or even as a backend for a mobile application.

Piranha CMS is designed as a totally **decoupled** CMS, meaning that you can build your application in any way you want, using any technology you want. We provide packages to give you the options whether you want to use it as an **integrated** or **headless** CMS.

## Our Design Principles

> **An open and extendible platform.**
>
> **Easy and intuitive for the content administrators.**
>
> **Fast, efficient and fun for the developers.**

We've never been interested in incorporating big, complex functions for enterprise customers, there are already lots of commercial products available for this segment. Instead we focus our efforts on providing **awesome tools** for small to medium sized customers who *don't know how to edit* their current web applications. These are the customers we meet every day.

Because in the end, if the customer doesn't understand how to maintain their own application, you should have just given them a static site for a fraction of the cost.

## What isn't Piranha

Piranha isn't, and will **never be** Wordpress. What we mean by this is, since we don't care **how** you build, or **what** kind of application you build, Piranha will never be able to  provide a shop full of pre-made Themes and Plugins that you can use to put together a site without any programming.

The heart and soul of Piranha is about **structuring content** and **editing** it in the most intuitive way possible - the rest we leave up to you.
