# Startup Options

When you add Piranha to your `Startup.cs` as described in [Application Setup](application-setup), all of the available middleware and routing components are added by default. While this is perfect for most green field websites you may need to control the exactly what parts of the pipeline that are active when integrating Piranha into an existing application.

#### AddRazorRuntimeCompilation

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.AddRazorRuntimeCompilation = true;
});
~~~

Enables runtime compilation for Razor `.cshtml` files. This is useful for development environments so that you don't have to restart the application every time you update a view or page. The default value of this property is **false** as you shouldn't have runtime compilation enabled in production.

### Routing

The following options is available when calling `UseCms()` to configure how the application listens to incoming requests.

#### UseAliasRouting

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms(o =>
    {
        o.UseAliasRouting = false;
    });
});
~~~

If alias routing should be enabled in the middleware pipeline. The default value is **true**.

#### UseArchiveRouting

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms(o =>
    {
        o.UseArchiveRouting = false;
    });
});
~~~

If archive routing should be enabled in the middleware pipeline. The default value is **true**.

#### UsePageRouting

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms(o =>
    {
        o.UsePageRouting = false;
    });
});
~~~

If page routing should be enabled in the middleware pipeline. The default value is **true**.

#### UsePostRouting

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms(o =>
    {
        o.UsePostRouting = false;
    });
});
~~~

If post routing should be enabled in the middleware pipeline. The default value is **true**.

#### UseSitemapRouting

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms(o =>
    {
        o.UseSitemapRouting = false;
    });
});
~~~

If the middleware should listen for and handle incoming requests to `/sitemap.xml`. The default value is **true**.

#### UseSiteRouting

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms(o =>
    {
        o.UseSiteRouting = false;
    });
});
~~~

If site routing should be enabled in the middleware pipeline. This can be disabled if you only have one site in your application. The default value is **true**.

#### UseStartpageRouting

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms(o =>
    {
        o.UseStartpageRouting = false;
    });
});
~~~

If start page routing should be enabled in the middleware pipeline. The default value is **true**.

### Manager options

The following options is available when calling `UseManager()` to configure the application.

#### JSON Options

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseManager(o =>
    {
        o.JsonOptions =>
        {
            ...
        };
    });
});
~~~

This action can be used if you need to modify the Newtonsoft JSON options used by the manager when serializing data through its API's. Please note that the following values can't be changed as they are needed by the manager application.

~~~ csharp
SerializerSettings.TypeNameHandling = TypeNameHandling.Auto;
~~~

#### XSRF Cookie Name

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseManager(o =>
    {
        o.XsrfCookieName = "MY_ANTIFORGERY_COOKIE";
    });
});
~~~

The manager interface uses header based anti forgery validation to protect against CSRF attacks. This option configure the name of the cookie that the manager uses to communicate the token to the client. The default value is `XSRF-REQUEST-TOKEN`.

#### XSRF Header Name

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseManager(o =>
    {
        o.XsrfHeaderName = "MY_ANTIFORGERY_TOKEN";
    });
});
~~~

Sets the name of the header the manager will use to pass along the anti forgery token to its API. If you already use header based anti forgery protection in your application you should change this option to the name you're currently using to prevent conflicts. The default value is `X-XSRF-TOKEN`.

### Using appsettings.json

Using the [options pattern](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/options) in ASP.NET you can also easily configure the routing options in your `appsettings.json`. Please note that this is just an example and your `appsettings.json` can have any structure you want.

**appsettings.json**
~~~
{
  "Piranha": {
    "Routing": {
      "UseSiteRouting": false
    }
  }
}
~~~

**Startup.cs**
~~~ csharp
public Startup(IConfiguration configuration)
{
    _config = configuration;
}

public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddPiranha(options =>
    {
        options.UseCms(o =>
            _config.GetSection("Piranha")
                ?.GetSection("Routing")
                ?.Bind(o));
    });
}
~~~
