# Application Service

> The Application Service is part of the package `Piranha.AspNetCore` and is intended to be used when building integrated web applications with `ASP.NET`.

The Application Service is a **scoped** service that simplifies access to common objects for the current request. It can be used both from your `.cshtml` views or pages, **or** from your backend `Controllers`. In the following examples we assume that the Application Service has been injected with the name **WebApp** with the following line in your `_ViewImports.cshtml`.

~~~ csharp
@inject Piranha.AspNetCore.Services.IApplicationService WebApp
~~~

## Registering The Service

The Application Service is needed by all middleware components in Piranha CMS is registered automatically when calling `UseCms` in `ConfigureServices`.

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranha(options =>
{
    options.UseCms();

    ...
});
~~~~

## Properties

##### Api

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.Api
~~~

Gives you access to the current scoped `IApi` instance.

##### PageId

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.PageId
~~~

Gets the id of the currently requested page. This is useful when rendering menus or other structures based on the sitemap.

##### CurrentPage

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.CurrentPage
~~~

Gets the currently requested page **if** the current HTTP request is for a page.

##### CurrentPost

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.CurrentPost
~~~

Gets the currently requested post **if** the current HTTP request is for a post.

## Helpers

### Media

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.Media
~~~

Gets the media helper which provides methods for manipulating media. You can read more about this in [Media Helper](../helpers/media-helper).

### Request

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.Request
~~~

Gets the request helper which provides information about the current request. You can read more about this in [Request Helper](../helpers/request-helper).

### Site

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.Site
~~~

Gets the site helper which provices information about the site currently being requested. You can read more about this in [Site Helper](../helpers/site-helper).

### MediaHelper

> The `MediaHelper` exposes helpers for accessing and manipulating uploaded media. Please note that for these methods to work you need to have registered an Image Manipulation service.

##### ResizeImage

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.Media.ResizeImage(ImageField image, int width, int? height = null)
~~~

Resizes the given `ImageField` to the specified dimensions and returns the `PublicUrl` to the resized file. If only width is specified the image is **scaled** with the same proportions. If both width and height is specified the image is both **scaled and cropped**.

~~~ csharp
@WebApp.Media.ResizeImage(Media image, int width, int? height = null)
~~~

Resizes the given `Media` to the specified dimensions and returns the `PublicUrl` to the resized file. If only width is specified the image is **scaled** with the same proportions. If both width and height is specified the image is both **scaled and cropped**.

### SiteHelper

> The `SiteHelper` provides information regarding the active site for the current request.

##### Sitemap

~~~ csharp
@{
    var sitemap = WebApp.Site.Sitemap;
}
~~~

Gets the `Sitemap` for the current site. This can for example be used for rendering menus. The result only contains the currently **published** nodes, but hidden nodes are included and must be handled by the application.

##### GetContentAsync

~~~ csharp
@{
    var content = await WebApp.Site.GetContentAsync<T>();
}
~~~

Gets the current site content with the specified `Site Type`. This is used if you have registered and selected a Type for your site for Site Global Content.