# Model Loader

> The Model Loader is part of the package `Piranha.AspNetCore` and is intended to be used when building integrated web applications with `ASP.NET`.

The Model Loader is a **scoped** service that simplifies model loading for Pages & Posts for the current request. It has support for loading unpublished content and drafts if the current user has access to it. It can be used both from your `.cshtml` views or pages, **or** from your backend `Controllers`.

## Registering The Service

The Model Loader should be added in `ConfigureServices` by calling the extension method:

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranhaApplication();
~~~~

## Methods

##### GetPage

~~~ csharp
Task<T> GetPageAsync<T>(Guid id, ClaimsPrincipal user, bool draft = false) where T : PageBase;
~~~

Gets the page with the given id as the specified type. If `draft` is set to `true` the given user is checked for the correct claims for previewing pages.

If the page has policies specified on it that the user need to view it these will be checked as well. If the current user doesn't have access to the page an `UnauthorizedAccessException` is thrown.

##### GetPost

~~~ csharp
Task<T> GetPostAsync<T>(Guid id, ClaimsPrincipal user, bool draft = false) where T : PostBase;
~~~

Gets the post with the given id as the specified type. If `draft` is set to `true` the given user is checked for the correct claims for previewing posts.

If the post has policies specified on it that the user need to view it these will be checked as well. If the current user doesn't have access to the post an `UnauthorizedAccessException` is thrown.
