# Azure Blob Storage

The Azure Blob Storage handles uploaded media by storing the uploaded files in an Azure Storage Service. If you're hosting your web application in Azure this has several benefits.

* Dedicated storage is much **cheaper** than App Service storage.
* Traffic from dedicated storage is much **cheaper** the App Service bandwidth.
* Media files are **distributed** and is not stored together with the web application.
* It's very easy to connect Azure **CDN** to Blob Storage.

As the media files are stored in a central location this works well when the different components of the application (such as client and manager) are deployed to different locations.

## Installation

The Local File Storage can be installed by adding the NuGet package:

~~~ csharp
PM> install-package Piranha.Azure.BlobStorage
~~~

## Registering The Service
You register Local File Storage with the default configuration in `ConfigureServices()` with the following code:

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranhaBlobStorage(credentials);
~~~

### Manual configuration

The storage credentials can be created manually by providing the storage service **name** and **key**.

~~~ csharp
var credentials = new StorageCredentials(storageName, storageKey);
~~~

### Using appsettings.json

You can easily configure your credentials from your `appsettings.json` by adding a section like this:

~~~ json
{
    "Storage": {
        "Name": "MyStorageName",
        "Key": "MyStorageKey"
    }
}
~~~

Given that you've setup your app configuration you can then access it like this from your `ConfigureServices`.

~~~ csharp
public class Startup
{
    public IConfiguration Configuration { get; private set; }

    public Startup(IConfiguration configuration)
    {
        Configuration = configuration;
    }

    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        ...

        services.AddPiranhaBlobStorage(new StorageCredentials(
            Configuration["Storage:Name"],
            Configuration["Storage:Key"]
        ));

        ...
    }
}
~~~

## Additional Configuration

When registering the service you have access to some configuration options to customize the storage to your needs.

##### Container Name

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranhaBlobStorage(credentials, containerName: "dev");
~~~

The container name in the Storage Service where uploaded media assets will be stored.

##### Scope

~~~ csharp
services.AddPiranhaBlobStorage(credentials, scope: ServiceLifetime.Scoped);
~~~

By default the service is registered as a `Singleton`, but in some cases you might want to handle it differently in your application.

