# Sites

> For general information on the different rules & components available when defining content types, please refer to [Building Content](../building-content).

Site types are the content templates for the global content of your sites. In contrast to pages and posts, sites can be created **without** setting a Site Type as it is totally optional. Another difference is that Site types **does not** support Blocks.

The preferred way of importing Site types is by using the `Piranha.AttributeBuilder` package. With this package you can directly mark your **Site models** with the Attributes needed.

## Defining a Site Type

Here's a simple example of a site with a header with an `ImageField` and a `StringField`.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;
using Piranha.Extend.Fields;
using Piranha.Models;

[SiteType(Title = "Default Site")]
public class DefaultSite : SiteContent<DefaultSite>
{
    public class SiteHeader
    {
        [Field]
        public ImageField Logo { get; set; }

        [Field]
        public StringField Title { get; set; }
    }

    [Region]
    public SiteHeader Header { get; set; }
}
~~~

To import this page type during your application startup you add the following line to your `Configure` method.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha.AttributeBuilder;

var siteTypeBuilder = new SiteTypeBuilder(api)
    .AddType(typeof(DefaultSite));
siteTypeBuilder.Build();
~~~

As you can see the `SiteTypeAttribute` allows you to set the **title** that will be displayed in the manager interface. If this property is left blank the class name is used.

## How To Assign The Site Type

To associate a Site type with your site from code you set the `SiteTypeId` property of the site.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha;

var site = await api.Sites.GetDefaultAsync();
site.SiteTypeId = "DefaultSite";

await api.Sites.SaveAsync(site);
~~~

You can also set the Site type from the manager by editing the site and **selecting one** of the available types from the dropdown.

## How To Edit The Site Content

Once you have assigned a Site type to your site your can start editing its content. You can easily edit it from code by accessing the `SiteRepository`.

~~~ csharp
using Piranha;

var site = await api.Sites.GetContentByIdAsync<DefaultSite>(siteId);
site.Title = "My site title";

await api.Site.SaveContentAsync(siteId, site);
~~~

In the **manager** you can access the site content from the top of the Sitemap view that can be found under the **Pages** view in the manager. Please note that you have to assign a type to the site before the button for editing site content is available.

## How To Access The Site Content

The easiest way to access the site content from your `view` or `layout` is using the `Application Service`. For more information, please refer to the article [Services](../services).