# Middleware

The first component in the Asp.NET Core pipeline is `Middleware`. Middleware can either handle a request completely, or process the incoming request and pass it on to the next component in the pipeline.

As Piranha CMS is built around standard `ASP.NET` components most of its middleware is used for routing and passes the request on to eventually be handled by the web application.

## Registering The Middleware

Middleware is added in the `Configure` method in your Startup. To add all of the available middleware for Piranha CMS you call the extension method:

    app.UsePiranha();

If you only want to use parts of Piranha CMS you can register them manually.

## Default Pipeline

When registering all of the middleware by calling `app.UsePiranha()` the middleware are added in the following order:

1. **Application** Middleware
2. **Alias** Middleware
3. **Page** Middleware
4. **Post** Middleware
5. **Archive** Middleware
6. **Startpage** Middleware
7. **Sitemap** Middleware

## Available Middleware

Below is a description of the different middleware components, how you register them manually, and what they do. Please note that if you plan on registering middleware manually you should not call `app.UsePiranha()` as this will register all middleware.

### Application Middleware

`app.UsePiranhaApplication();`

Adds the middleware that resolves the current site requested by the incoming request. This middleware is **mandatory** and needed by **all other middleware** that handles incoming requests.

### Alias Middleware

`app.UsePiranhaAliases();`

This adds the middleware that rewrites incoming requests depending on the current aliases configured in the manager.

### Page Middleware

`app.UsePiranhaPages();`

This adds the middleware that tries to resolve an incoming request to the slugs available for the current site. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

`GET /<pageSlug>`

The middleware will rewrite requests to the specified **Page Type Route** or to `/page` if no route is specified, with the arguments `id` and `startpage`. To handle this request your **controller action** should look like this:

    [Route("page")]
    public IActionResult Page(Guid id, bool startpage)
    {
        ...
    }

### Post Middleware

`app.UsePiranhaPosts();`

This adds the middleware that tries to resolve an incoming request to the slugs available for the current site. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/<postSlug>`

The middleware will rewrite requests to the specified **Post Type Route** or to `/post` if no route is specified, with the argument `id`. To handle this request your controller action should look like this:

    [Route("post")]
    public IActionResult Post(Guid id)
    {
        ...
    }

### Archive Middleware

`app.UsePiranhaArchives();`

This adds the middleware that resolves incoming requests for **archive pages** and rewrites the request to the specified **Page Type Route** or to `/archive` if no route is specified. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

**Standard Request**

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/<year?>/<month?>(/page/<pageNum>)?`

**Filtered By Category**

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/category/<categorySlug>/<year?>/<month?>(/page/<pageNum>)?`

**Filtered By Tag**

`GET /<blogPageSlug>/tag/<tagSlug>/<year?>/<month?>(/page/<pageNum>)?`

All parameters are optional except `blogPageSlug`, but the optional paging must be placed last. Everything after the page number is ignored. This means that the following URL's would be valid:

* `/myblog`
* `/myblog/category/fishing`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon`
* `/myblog/page/2`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/page/2`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/page/2`
* `/myblog/2018`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018`
* `/myblog/2018/page/2`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018/page/2`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018/page/2`
* `/myblog/2018/1`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018/1`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018/1`
* `/myblog/2018/1/page/2`
* `/myblog/category/fishing/2018/1/page/2`
* `/myblog/tag/salmon/2018/1/page/2`

The middleware will rewrite requests to the specified route with the following arguments:

    [Route("archive")]
    public IActionResult Archive(Guid id, int? year = null, int? month = null,
        int? page = null, Guid? category = null, Guid? tag = null)
    {
        ...
    }

### Startpage Middleware

`app.UsePiranhaStartPage();`

Adds the middleware that resolves requests to the site root. It listens to URL's of the following syntax:

`GET /`

The request is rewritten the same way as for pages.

### Sitemap Middleware

`app.UsePiranhaSitemap();`

Adds the middleware that responds to incoming requests for `/sitemap.xml` and returns a sitemap document.

`GET /sitemap.xml`