# Media Files

By default Piranha allows the follow files to be uploaded into the **Media** library.

* `.jpg`, `.jpeg` & `.png` images
* `.mp4` videos
* `.pdf` documents

The reason for such a restrictive upload policy is simply that these are the types of files that are supported on most devices, included the different mobile devices out there.

## Referencing Media

Media files can be easily referenced in your content types by using any of the available **media fields**. The following example shows a **Page Type** referencing an **image**, a **video**, and a list of **media** objects of any type.

    using System.Collections.Generic;
    using Piranha.Models;
    using Piranha.Extend.Fields;

    public class MediaPage : Page<MediaPage>
    {
        [Region]
        public ImageField Image { get; set; }

        [Region]
        public VideoField Video { get; set; }

        [Region]
        public IList<MediaField> Assets { get; set; }
    }

## Querying Media

All methods for accessing media files can be found in the current `IApi` in the `MediaRepository`. This following code would get all available media assets in the **root folder** in the media library.

    using System.Collections.Generic;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    using Piranha;
    using Piranha.Media;

    public Task<IList<Media>> GetMediaInRootFolder(IApi api)
    {
        return api.Media.GetAllAsync();
    }

## Uploading Media

Media files can be uploaded easily from a `Stream` or a `Byte Array` by using the current `IApi`.

#### Upload media from a stream

    using System.IO;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    using Piranha.Models;

    using (var stream = File.OpenRead("myimage.png"))
    {
        await api.Media.SaveAsync(new StreamMediaContent
        {
            Filename = "myimage.png",
            Data = stream
        });
    }

#### Uploading media from a byte array

    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    using Piranha.Models;

    await api.Media.SaveAsync(new BinaryMediaContent
    {
        Filename = "myimage.png",
        Data = myByteArray
    });

## Adding Media Types

If you need to handle more media types in your application you can easily register them in your application startup after the `Piranha.App` has been initialized. The following code will for example allow `.gif` images.

    Piranha.App.MediaTypes.Images.Add(".gif", "image/gif");

It's very import to classify the media types your add correctly in terms of what type it is (document, image or video). This is so that Piranha knows what to do with the file.
